hey guys it's Joanne fifteen spatulas
and today we're going to make New
England style clam chowder this is a
cream based outer instead of the tomato
based Manhattan style chowder I just
think the cream base tastes so much
better but I don't claim this to be an
authentic New England clam chowder
there's all sorts of arguments about
what that even means because there's so
many ways that people make New England
clam chowder but for my version there's
two things that I like to do first of
all I love using fresh clams I think it
tastes so much better and something
about canned clams just kind of weirds
me out and I haven't found a brand that
I think really tastes good and then the
second thing is this isn't a flower
thicken soup I think sometimes New
England clam chowder's can be kind of
gloopy and thick if you know what I mean
and I just don't think that's as
delicious I love the texture of this
suit let me show you how to make it
start by rinsing two dozen Little Neck
clams making sure to wash off any mud or
sand from the outside and then put them
in a bowl and tuck with cold water and
let the clamp soak for about thirty
minutes so they can spit out any sand
from the inside in the meantime chop up
one large yellow onion you want to end
up with about two cups total for this
and when the clams are done rinse off
the clams again and then add them to the
bottom of a soup pot and cover with a
half cup of dry white wine turn the heat
to high and cover the pot with a lid let
the liquid come to a full boil and then
give the clams about four to five
minutes to open up then you can remove
the clams from the liquid and sometimes
the clams are stubborn to open and might
need a little bit more time but if any
of them don't open after seven to eight
minutes throw them out the clam liquid
this time around was a bit muddy so I
discarded it but if it looks relatively
clear you can strain out any sand and a
paper towel line strainer and
incorporate that into your chowder but
you'll be fine without it as well clean
the pot out and add three strips of
thick-cut bacon this is about four
ounces and while that cooks and crisps
up you can remove all of the clams from
the shell with your fingers
remove the bacon from the pot and blot
some of the excess bacon fat with a
paper towel and then add all of your
yellow onion and stir them cook that for
about 10 minutes to soften scraping up
any of the brown bits from the bottom of
the pan next add 2 8 ounce bottles of
clam juice that's 2 cups and add an
extra cup of water as well and bring
that to a boil
in the meantime dice up a large half
pound russet potato add that to the
chowder and simmer the potatoes for
about 10 minutes until tender crumble up
the bacon and add that and the clams to
the chowder then add 1/2 cup of heavy
cream stir that in and then I like to
add a little pinch of cayenne pepper
give that a stir and make any necessary
salt and pepper seasoning adjustments
and it's ready to serve
got a bowl of my powder here just
getting a spoonful with clam bacon
potato and onion on here to give this a
taste
my gosh
this is just spectacular I mean the
flavor is just the perfect blend that
sweet cream dairy and that C briny clam
it's so good the sweetness of the onion
the meatiness and smokiness from that
little bit of bacon it's nice and hearty
from those potatoes and they thicken the
broth ever so slightly but it still got
a really nice consistency to it I
absolutely love this chowder so much
well I hope you guys enjoy learning how
to make this recipe and I hope you give
it a try and it gets a nice simple
recipe but still has so much flavor and
it's so good thanks for watching I'll
see you guys next time